Oh
now along with a simple bench test you
can also test your o2 sensor right on
the vehicle we're gonna demonstrate that
right now all right Jim that's right now
basically what we're going to need sky
there's a voltmeter set on the two volt
scale because the o2 sensor produces a
very small voltage and I'm going to
connect the voltmeter first to a good
ground the negative lead gets connected
to a good engine ground sure and then
I'm going to reach over and unplug the
o2 sensor lead and connect the positive
lead of the voltmeter to the o2 sensors
lead now we'll be able to measure the
voltage while that's right in the engine
now we're going to have to run the
vehicle and change the air fuel mixture
ratio a simple way to do that would just
be to create a vacuum leak sure there's
a vacuum port right here on the top of
this engine with a little rubber cap on
so if you have one of these on your car
there's a little clip that you can use a
pair of pliers to remove and get that
out of the way and then simply pull the
little boot off and that will create the
vacuum leak that you need to change the
mixture so I'll start the car and we'll
do that all right now we've previously
run this engine for a little bit of time
to warm it up to
for a little additional
our meters starting to come up now so I
think our go-to sensor is warming up and
it does have to be at at least 600
degrees Fahrenheit for this test to work
I'm gonna go ahead and open up the
vacuum port and we see what numbers
dropped as we wean the mixture
yep way down
put your finger over plug the vacuum
leak numbers go back up way down
and now as you can see the engine almost
stalled on this testing on some vehicles
that actually would stall so on those
vehicles we'll have to do something
called the propane enrichment test sir
and so I'm going to take this valve
which we have screwed to a propane
bottle it's a regular propane model with
a special valve on it for doing this
test and connect it to the vacuum port
you know a slight vacuum leak introduced
so we're seeing a real low voltage on
the voltmeter which is a signal of a
lean mixture if we open the propane
bottle up our reading should go up there
it goes back down this gives us the
opportunity then to test an o2 sensor on
the vehicle with either a vacuum let's
review the test procedure for an oxygen
sensor that has been removed from the
vehicle the first step is to visually
inspect the oxygen sensor normal
coloration will be light tan white black
red or light gray deposits our sign of a
contaminated sensor connect the red lead
of the digital voltmeter to the black
lead from the sensor connect the black
lead from the digital voltmeter to the
body of the sensor set the meter to the
true volt scale eat the sensor tip in
the flame of a propane torch the voltage
should exceed point 9 volts within one
minute remove the sensor tip from the
flame the reading on the voltmeter
should reach point 1 volt or less within
3 seconds if not replaced the sensor now
let's review the testing procedure for
an oxygen sensor that is still installed
in the vehicle connect the red lead of
the voltmeter to a pin in that his back
broke into the oxygen sensor connector
connect the black lead to a good engine
Brown locate a good manifold vacuum
source start the engine and run it until
the meter reading begins to toggle over
and under point 5 volts create a vacuum
leak at the core core source located
earlier observe the meter reading the
voltage should drop below point 1 volt
briefly with the vacuum leak and should
rise above point 5 volts run the vacuum
unica's plug
you